# Synthetic Monitoring

Just because your web application is accessible from your office and runs great on your laptop doesn't mean that your customers around the world are also having a great experience with it. Therefore, it's imperative to ensure constant availability and performance of your application from your users' point of view.

Dynatrace Synthetic Monitoring makes it easy for you to monitor the availability and performance of your applications as experienced by your customers around the world and around the clock. Availability is the success rate at a given instant or time period that indicates if your application is fully functional and available to users. Performance measures whether your web page or recorded interaction experiences significant slowdowns compared to a threshold.

The availability and performance of your internal resources are equally important. With the ability to execute monitors from private locations, you can bring the testing capabilities available in public locations right to your own infrastructure.  

There are 2 different types of synthetic monitor   
1.  Browser Monitor
2.  HTTP Monitor

---------------------------------------------------

## Browser Monitor 

Browser clickpaths are simulated user visits that monitor your application’s business-critical workflows. You can use the Dynatrace recorder to record an exact sequence of clicks and user input that you're interested in monitoring for availability and performance. Once you’ve captured the mouse clicks and additional user actions that you want your browser clickpath to include, you can set the browser clickpath to run automatically at regular intervals to test your site’s availability and performance.

----------------------------------------------------

## HTTP Monitor

HTTP monitors comprise simple HTTP requests. You can use them to monitor the availability of your API endpoints or perform simple HTTP checks for single-resource availability. You can also set up performance thresholds for HTTP monitors. As with browser monitors, HTTP monitors run automatically at regular intervals from our global public or private locations. HTTP monitors executed by an ActiveGate from a private Synthetic location can be used to check the availability of your internal resources that are inaccessible from outside your network.
